Matmul quantized test metadata (#481)
tracel-ai/cubecl: cubecl-book/src/algorithms/quantized_matmul.md

To compute \\(Q_a - z_a N_a \\),
we first convert the values to `i16` before performing the subtraction.
Then, we can compute the product \\((Q_a - z_a N_a)(Q_b - z_b N_b)\\)
by converting the values to `i32` before multiplying.
Of course,
in practice, we perform all these conversions on-the-fly to avoid wastefully allocating new matrices.

Now, suppose that \\(x\\) is a single element in the resulting matrix and \\(y\\)
is the element with the same position in \\(Q_c\\).
We still need to compute the following
\\[
  y = z_c + \frac uv \cdot x.
\\]
The tricky part here is the product.
First,
we impose that \\( v \\) is a power of 2 so that dividing by \\( v \\)
is equivalent to right-shifting the product \\( u x \\).
Then, we need to find the best values \\( u \\) and \\( v \\)
for the scaling factor \\( \sigma = \frac{s_a s_b}{s_c} \\).
The trick is to cleverly multiply \\( \sigma \\) by 1, to get a form that allows us to work with powers of 2:
\\[
  \sigma = \frac{2^{31 - f}}{2^{31 - f}} \sigma
\\]
where \\(2^f\\) is the smallest power of 2 larger than \\(\sigma\\).
For example, if \\(\sigma = 0.3\\), then \\(f = -1\\) as \\(2^{-1} = 0.5 > 0.3 \\)

> and \\(2^{-2} = 0.25 < 0.3\\).

Reviewer: This sentence is confusing

      // assume the shapes of the matrices match.

      let sigma = self.scaling * other.scaling / output.scaling;
      let (u, v_shift) = scaling_ratio(sigma);

      for row in 0..self.row_count() {
          for col in 0..other.col_count() {
              let mut sum: i32 = 0;
              for middle in 0..self.col_count() {
                  let a = self.get(row, middle) as i16 - self.zero_offset as i16;
                  let b = other.get(middle, col) as i16 - other.zero_offset as i16;
                  sum += (a as i32) * (b as i32);
              }
              sum = approx_mul(sum, u, v_shift);

              output.update(row, col, clamp_to_u8(sum + output.zero_offset as i32))
          }           
      }
  }

  // return the value at (row, col)
  fn get(&self, row: usize, col: usize) -> u8 { /* ... */ }

  // replace the value at (row, col) with the given value.
  fn update(&mut self, row: usize, col: usize, value: u8) { /* ... */ }

  // return the number of rows of the matrix.
  fn row_count(&self) -> usize { /* ... */ }

  // return the number of columns of the matrix.
  fn col_count(&self) -> usize { /* ... */ }
}
```
Of course,

> in CubeCL, we stride to provide the fastest implementation for GPU devices.

Reviewer: we stride? 😄

# Quantized matrix multiplication

To make matrix multipliation faster,
we replace floating-point arithmetic using `f32`
with integer arithmetic using a mix of `u8`, `u16` and `i32`.

> This leads to two gains.

Reviewer 2: Formulation: instead of using "leads" and "leading" multiple times in the following sentences, we can say

```suggestion
The benefits are twofold.
```

First,

> we replace `Tensor<f32>` with `Tensor<u8>` leading a 4 times saving in memory cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we replace `Tensor<f32>` with `Tensor<u8>` to reduce memory cost by a factor of 4.
```

> we replace `Tensor<f32>` with `Tensor<u8>` leading a 4 times saving in memory cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we replace `Tensor<f32>` with `Tensor<u8>` to reduce memory cost by a factor of 4.
```

Hence, the zero-offset \\(z\\) allows to slide the interval of representable numbers toward
an interval we are interested in a particular application.
Also, by using the same type for \\(q\\) and \\(z\\),
we assure that 0 is exactly representable.

The multiplication of two real numbers is equivalent to
\\[
  a b = s_a s_b (q_a - z_a) (q_b - z_b).
\\]
However,
we are more interested in the quantized version \\(q_c\\) of \\(c = ab \\).
Given we want to approximate \\(c\\) with scaling \\(s_c\\) and zero-offset \\(z_c\\),
we have
\\[
  q_c =
  z_c + \frac{s_a s_b}{s_c} (q_a - z_a) (q_b - z_b).
\\]
Except for the factor \\( (s_a s_b) / s_c \\), the above equation involves only integer artihmetic.
However,
we can always find two integers \\(u, v\\) such that
\\[
  \frac uv \approx \frac{s_a s_b}{s_c}
\\]
is a satisfying approximation.
This leads to the final approximation for quantized multiplication
\\[
  q_c \approx z_c + \frac uv (q_a - z_a)(q_b - z_b)
\\]
requiring only integer arithmetic.

### Matrix quantization

The same idea holds for matrix multiplication.
To distinguish matrices from scalars,

> we use capital letters for the formers and lower letters for the laters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
we use capital letters for the former and lower letters for the latter.
```

A real matrix \\( A \\) is approximated by an integer matrix \\( Q \\) using
\\[
  A \approx s (Q - z N).
\\]

> Here \\( N \\) is a matrix filled with one the same size as \\( A \\).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here \\( N \\) is a matrix of ones the same size as \\( A \\).
```

For two matrices \\(A \\) and \\( B \\) with respective shape \\(m \times k\\)

> and \\(k \times m\\) and their product \\( C \\) of shape \\( m \times n \\),

Reviewer 2: Typo? If A is m x k then B should be k x n for C to be m x n
```suggestion
and \\(k \times n\\) and their product \\( C \\) of shape \\( m \times n \\),
```

we have, similar to the scalar case that
\\[
  Q_c \approx z_c N_c + \frac uv (Q_a - z_a N_a)(Q_b - z_b N_b).
\\]

## Implementation

As an example,
we describe how to implement the quantized matrix multiplication
where the elements of \\(Q_a\\), \\(Q_b\\) and \\(Q_c\\) and the zero-offsets are represented as `u8`.

To represent the difference \\(Q_a - z_a N_a \\),

> we first convert the numbers to `i16` and then we compute the substraction.

Reviewer 2: Typo: substraction -> subtraction.

But actually, I think we can formulate to make it a bit more concise:
```
To compute \\(Q_a - z_a N_a \\),
we first convert the values to `i16` before performing the subtraction.
Then, we can compute the product \\((Q_a - z_a N_a)(Q_b - z_b N_b)\\)
by converting the values to `i32` before multiplying.
```

Then, we can take product \\((Q_a - z_a N_a)(Q_b - z_b N_b)\\)
by first converting to `i32` and then taking the product.
Of course,
in practice, we perform all these conversions on-the-fly to avoid wastefully allocating new matrices.

Now, suppose that \\(x\\) is a single element in the resulting matrix and \\(y\\)
is the element with the same position in \\(Q_c\\).

> Then, we still need to perform the computation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We still need to compute the following
```

\\[
  y = z_c + \frac uv \cdot x.
\\]
The tricky part here is the product.
First,
we impose that \\( v \\) is a power of 2 so that dividing by \\( v \\)
is equivalent to right-shifting the product \\( u x \\).
Then, we need to find the best values \\( u \\) and \\( v \\)
for the scaling factor \\( \sigma = \frac{s_a s_b}{s_c} \\).

> The trick is to cleverly multiply \\( \sigma \\) by 1, to get

Reviewer 2: Maybe we can expand
```suggestion
The trick is to cleverly multiply \\( \sigma \\) by 1, to get a form that allows us to work with powers of 2:
```

\\[
  \sigma = \frac{2^{31 - f}}{2^{31 - f}} \sigma
\\]
where \\(2^f\\) is the smallest power of 2 larger than \\(\sigma\\).
For example, if \\(\sigma = 0.3\\), then \\(f = -1\\) as \\(2^{-1} = 0.5 > 0.3 \\)
and \\(2^{-2} = 0.25 < 0.3\\).
From this, we deduce we that we can use \\(u = 2^{31 - f} \sigma\\) rounded to the
nearest `i64` value and \\(v = 2^{31 - f}\\).

> This gives us a 31 bits approximation of multiplying by \\(\sigma\\) which is the best
> we can do when to other multiplicand is a `i32`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This gives us a 31-bit approximation for multiplying by \\(\sigma\\), which is the best
we can achieve when the other multiplicand is an `i32`.
```
